OK, so next up, we're going to talk about string concatenation, string concatenation is just a fancy
way of saying putting text together string concatenation is an extremely common thing to have to do
in programming all of the time.
For example, any time you accept input from a user and then you want to spit out a message where you
incorporate whatever it is that they typed in, you're probably going to be doing some type of formatting
or string concatenation to combine your formatted text with the text that they entered.
There are many other examples as well.
So we'll take a quick look at how to do this in multiple ways in Java.
All right, so turning back to the A.D., let's see if we can keep working in our learned strings class
here.
I think maybe we'll go ahead and just clear out what we had before, though, so I just selected that
and then I'll just hit delete.
All right.
So let's first look at probably the simplest ways to concatenate text.
We'll do this by creating a couple of strings as variables, so I'll create one string and I'll just
call it text one because I again don't feel like thinking of fancy names for things right now.
And we'll say this is my text one.
And then we'll make another string and call it text two.
And same thing, this is my text to.
All right.
So let's say we want to combine these two strings together and print them out so we can use our trusty
Associati macro hit enter to expand that out to system that out that print line.
And the first thing we can do is really just do this.
We can type the two variable names, text one and then I like to put a space here, but a plus sign
another space.
The spaces are optional.
Text two And if you'll recall from previous conversations I've stated in the past, I'd just like to
have a little space between things like these plus signs just for readability.
I think it looks a little busy without that space.
All right, so let's go ahead and run this and see what we get.
All right, there we go, so this is my next one with no space there, this is my text too.
That's probably not what you would really want because you'd probably want to have a little space there.
Obviously, the simplest way to put some space there would be to just put the space right there.
Hard code the space into the second string, or you can put it on the first string.
It doesn't really matter.
So obviously, if we run this again, there will now be a space there.
OK.
So that's the simplest thing that you could probably do.
However, there's a couple issues with this.
If we had accepted this text to, for example, as input from the user, they may or may not have put
a space there.
And so that could be a little bit of an issue, right?
How do we have a little more control over whether or not that space is needed?
Well, actually, before we get to that.
So let me show you a couple of other things we could do.
I'm going to take that space out.
We could combine some more strings and we could even combine these two variable strings with a literal
so we could put a space in like this.
OK, so text plus the space, plus the text.
Let's run that.
Yeah, and that's a little better.
This is my next one, this is my text too, right?
And so you can see here that you can actually just string together lots.
No pun intended.
Lots of strings with the plus sign.
Just like this.
OK, so you could just you could keep going.
You can even put other things in there as well.
All right, so there we go.
Lots of space and everything's getting concatenated.
Just fine.
All right.
So yeah, this this works fine and you'll see a lot of code.
Just use the plus sign for small, simple concatenation.
There are some perceived downsides, though, to using the plus sign to concatenate strings, depending
on what you need to do.
All right.
So that's like I said, probably the simplest way to concatenate strings.
Some things to be aware of, though, for just concatenating, let's say maybe two strings together
and you're not doing anything fancy where you're going to have to keep doing it over and over and over
again, like in a loop or something.
This is this is OK if you know that you're going to need to concatenate a lot of strings together into
like one massive string, for example.
And it's maybe like going to either be more than two or three or you're going to have to keep doing
it in some kind of a loop so that you can keep building something bigger and bigger.
Do not use this approach of the plus sign.
And the reason for that is because the plus sign approach to concatenating strings results.
Well, if you're going to be doing it a lot, it results in a whole lot of string objects being created
in memory every time it has to concatenate those strings together.
And so that becomes very inefficient use of memory in the computer.
And even though computers these days have a ton of memory with them, you'd be surprised you can still
exhaust the allocated memory that the Java system itself is permitted to use by default on a computer.
So this is fine for small, you know, couple of strings and you're not inside of any kind of a looping
type of code.
But if you're getting into loops and you're going to be doing it a lot, don't use this approach.
All right.
So that's one way.
So I'm going to put the cursor here and make a new line and we'll make a couple more strings and we'll
try concatenating in another way.
So another way to do this, especially with this kind of simple case, might be.
OK, so I'm going to do another print line here, and I'm going to reference text one.
But this time I'm going to use a method that exists on the string class itself, since string is a class
that has a lot of methods.
So one of the methods on the string class is called Cone Cat Short for concatenate.
And so we can call this method and it takes as input a second string.
So it's a method of a string.
So you have this text, this is my text one and you're saying, take this text and concatenate it with
some more text.
So in this case, text one dot concatenate.
And then I will reference text to here just like that.
And so that's just going to combine the text of text to with the text of text one.
And so if we run this, in fact, let me let me just I'll just comment this out.
I'm just leaving this one here, see that you can see the differences in these approaches.
But I don't want that to run right now.
Some renting this.
OK, so we are getting the same output that we originally got with the first approach where there's
no space here.
And so obviously you end up with this situation again, where you need to decide, how do you want to
get a little bit of space in here?
If you are in that situation, you may not want to use this approach.
There are some ways to do it, but they start to look a little hairy.
So, for example, see, we could do.
That but now you're basically just mixing this concatenation approach with the plus sign concatenation
approach.
It's a little bit weird.
You could.
You could do.
You could daisy chain like this, which is kind of really bad.
The reason this is kind of really bad is because now you've got all this nesting going on.
Look at all these parentheses here that just starts to look difficult to read.
It's kind of confusing looking as to what are what are we even doing here?
I'll run it just to just to prove that this does work.
But don't do this.
This is bad code.
All right.
So, yeah, it works, you get the space, but it's difficult to read any anyone, including yourself
who comes back and looks at this code might have to look at it for for a little for a few seconds longer
to make sure they really get what's going on here, especially if this weren't a space.
If this were not a space, if this was something else, you know, not space, you might have to really
take some time to figure out what, what, what's going on here.
So I don't recommend doing this.
So if you're going to use the cat method, probably keep it short and sweet and simple just two strings
getting concatenated together and don't try to be super fancy with it.
Obviously, you can concatenate.
A variable.
Obviously, you can concatenate a variable with a string literal, as I'm doing here.
Or you could flip this around.
You could have.
My string literal.
OK, now watch this.
Even though this is a literal, it is still a string and because it's a string, it still has methods
on it.
So this is going to look a little weird because I don't have the parentheses around the creation of
this string object.
However, I can hit period right there and I can still get all of the string methods.
So here let me let me just finish this thought before I proceed.
We'll concatenate that with text one.
OK.
So the way to look at this is that everything in these quotation marks becomes a string object.
Literally, it does become a string object.
And then once you've got that object, you can put period and then access all of the methods of the
string class.
OK, so I know that might look a little bit weird, but you can totally do that.
And you could even come over here and then throw another literal and right here.
Second string literal.
So you can even.
And I needed to close that, that that parentheses for the print line method there.
So that's another thing too.
I don't know if you saw that, but I didn't have my closing parentheses there for the print line method
since every method needs parentheses, right?
So this print line method had an opening parentheses.
Then I created this cat method.
It had a parentheses, but I needed a closing parentheses for the print line method.
And now that little I don't know if you saw that, but this little red error there right there went
away.
All right, so the method is another way that you can do this, and in some ways it is potentially a
little bit better than using the plus sign.
But like I said, if you're only going to combine like a couple of strings, maybe three and you're
not going to be in any loop, the plus signs, OK?
You know, you don't have to wrack your brain forever trying to figure out what is the ultimate most
efficient way to do this, but just be mindful.
All right.
So that's another way that you could do this.
Let's see.
Now we can get into a slightly fancier approach.
OK, so I'll make make another line again, so as I said earlier, if you're going to be combining lots
of strings together three, four or five, one hundred five hundred thousands, whatever, it's going
to be more than two or three.
There are better approaches than using the plus sign or this kind cat.
One of the approaches you could use would be to use a class called string builder.
So there is a class called string builder, which allows you to build long strings that don't have to
be long, of course, but it's it's designed to allow you to to basically combine a lot of strings together.
And the way that we can use that is there's a couple of ways here.
First thing I'm going to do, I'm going to create a a variable, a string variable.
Let's see final string.
So this will hold on to whatever the final thing is.
OK.
And we'll start simple here.
So we'll say final string equals new string.
Filter.
Dot.
Append.
And will append.
That attend.
Thanks to.
OK.
All right.
And so now that we will have captured the output of this, we can just print that out.
So we'll do another duty and then we'll print out the final string notice again.
I did not type out the whole world word final string.
I just typed like an f and and I and then I hit return.
All right.
We'll run this.
OK, so here we have our output, this is my text one, this is my text too.
So what what's happening here is first, we are creating an instance of this thing called string builder.
So think of the string builder as a temporary holding tank where you can start to combine all your strings
together, like a like a scratch pad, if you will.
OK, so we're creating this scratch pad thing and then this string builder has a nice method on it called
append.
And you can just keep calling this method over and over and over again to append more and more text
into this scratch pad, and the string builder will make sure that they all go together.
OK.
And so you can call this as many times as you like.
We're doing that append here and this append method if you want to get a little more technical.
This append method returns the same string builder that we were already using, and that's why you can
keep calling Append on it.
I don't know if that's fully making sense to you, but don't worry about it.
Just know that this is the pattern for for for using this.
OK.
So, yeah, so you can call this a pin method as many times as you like.
And when you're done appending the text, the only thing you need to do at the very end is to call two
string, and that is an overwritten version of Object Dot to string that we have already learned about
before.
And this just tells the string builder, Hey, take everything that you've been tacking together and
go ahead and spit it all out so that we can use it.
So now this is easy to forget.
But the A.D. likely won't let you forget it because if you don't have the two string method on the end
here.
This is an error, because the thing that comes out of the append method is a string builder and a string
builder cannot be assigned to a string.
In other words, we can't take a string builder and store a reference to a string builder inside of
a variable for a string.
Those are not the same data types.
And that's why we're getting this error here.
So that would be a hint that, oh, I forgot to call two string, right?
So you have to go to the end of this and say to string, right?
Because the two string method returns a string, and that's what this variable type is.
String.
OK.
And then we can print the string out just like so.
So one thing you might like to do sometimes if you're going to use the append method is you may want
to format the code a little bit to be a little more readable.
It doesn't all have to be on the same line.
I've mentioned earlier that although I like to format my code and have strategically placed spaces,
the Java programming language for the most part, doesn't care about space.
And so you can do something like this where you can put each of the append method calls on its own line
just to make things a little easier to see what's happening here.
So now, for example, you may still want to have that space in between text one and text two.
So what you could do is put another line here and then do another append and then do a string literal
just like that.
OK.
Just be aware that the period needs to always be there, because that's how you're kind of telling Java
that you're about to call.
That's one of the ways that you're telling Java that you're about to call another method.
But the white space doesn't really matter.
And I think that makes it a little easier to read, especially if you're going to be appending several
strings together and mixing and matching literals and variables and things like I'm doing here.
This would also be a more appropriate way to append really long strings where you might be inside of
a loop or something like that because this is going to be much more efficient with the use of memory.
Now, you might wonder, well, why wouldn't I just always use the string builder?
And you absolutely can.
It's it's it's a pretty good way to do it.
Like I said earlier, though, in my own personal experience, like if I'm just appending literally
like two strings, I probably am going to be a little lazy to even want to bother creating this new
string builder and then calling the Dot to string method at the end.
That's a little more set up than I probably would want to do, just to concatenate two strings.
And so in that case, I'm probably either going to just use the plus sign or I'm going to use the contact
method.
It's really when I want to get just a little fancier or I know I'm going to be concatenating a little
bit more than that, that I may decide to go with the string builder.
OK, but yeah, the string builder is a fine choice in pretty much every case if you don't mind typing
the little bit extra code there.
OK, a couple of minor notes about the use of the string builder.
By the way, the string builder constructor can take an input, by the way, I'm not using it here.
I'm using the no ARG default constructor, but there's another constructor on the string builder that
can take an input where you can tell it how large the final string should be.
If you happen to know that, and what it will do with that information is it'll use it to allocate just
the right amount of memory in the computer for the final string, like the final, fully concatenated
thing.
So the way you could do that, one way you could do that if you, if you really cared, is something
like this you could do.
Now we haven't learned this yet, but might as well learn a little bit about it right now.
If you want to find out what's the final length of this going to be.
You could take the length of text one, plus the length of text to plus one, right, because you have
one space here.
And so you can actually do that programmatically by calling text one dot length.
So there's a method on string class which returns the an integer, which is the length or the size of
the string.
OK, so you could do this text one length.
Plus, text to that length plus one in this particular case, if you knew that you're only ever going
to append these three things here, that space plus those two, right?
And now you've just made the string builder even more efficient than it, it would have been if you
hadn't provided this if you don't provide that.
It's still pretty good, but it will have to kind of allocate enough space.
It'll take a good guess at how much it should take initially.
And then if that's not enough, it'll reallocate more.
And so that'll run a little slower if it ends up having to reallocate more.
And if it doesn't have to reallocate more, in all likelihood, it will have taken more space than it
in in memory than it needed.
But by by specifying this, if you know it beforehand, or if you can know it beforehand it, it doesn't
have to be too little or too much.
It'll be exactly what it needs.
So that's maybe something worth knowing.
And then one last thing you may encounter older code, or maybe even unfortunately, not older code
that concatenate with something that looks very similar to the string builder and that is called string
buffer.
Let me show you what that would look like.
So I'll make another string.
Other.
Final string, and I'm going to make a string buffer.
And I'm going to do the exact same thing as before.
Text one died append.
Text to.
To string.
And I'll make this a little more readable.
And I'll go ahead and put the space in there as well.
OK.
This does the exact same thing as the string builder, in fact, I will even print this out.
All right.
And I won't comment that out, so I'll run both of these now.
OK, so identical outputs, so you should be wondering, OK, this is weird, why are there two classes
that do apparently the exact same thing?
The answer to that question is really just that.
The string buffer class is older, and obviously it does do the exact same thing as the string builder.
It has a few little issues with it that have to do with running lines of code simultaneously or threads
simultaneously in a computer.
You know how you hear about your microprocessor having cores, multiple cores.
Each of those cores is essentially a little microprocessor in and of itself.
By having all of those additional cores in your computer, your computer is able to run more code simultaneously
in what are called threads.
So the string buffer class is what we refer to in the business as being thread safe.
That just means that multiple threads are able to interact with an instance of the string buffer safely.
However, this thread safety comes at the cost of performance because the extra precautions it has to
take to protect its data from one thread to another makes it slower.
And in the vast majority of cases, developers don't actually require that level of thread safety for
classes like string buffer.
So Sun Microsystems, the original creators of Java, eventually realized that it might be better to
create another version of the string buffer that was not thread safe, since the vast majority of developers
don't require thread safety for such a class anyway.
And that became the string builder.
And so today it is generally recommended that you use the string builder in most cases, unless you
explicitly know that you require the thread safety of the string buffer.
We won't be going into much about thread safety in this course because it's a beginning course, but
in later courses that I will be offering, especially where we will get more in-depth into web development.
We will be learning a lot more about thread safety so that you can determine when you may actually need
to care about these things.
OK, so there are a couple other ways that you could concatenate strings together.
You could also simply format some strings, and we've seen a little sample of that before.
So if we did system dot our dot format.
We could do something like percent as space, percent as.
Karma.
Text one comma text to.
OK, so what this is going to do is it's going to format this string literal here, and it's going to
replace the percent S's with whatever is in each of the corresponding variables.
And it's going to take everything that isn't eight percent something and print that literally.
And so since I have a little space in between the percent S's, that literal space would remain there
while the percent S's would get replaced with the text one in text two.
So actually, some of you may prefer this approach in some ways because it is highly efficient looking,
right?
I mean, it's pretty short line of code versus all of this and all of this.
However, this is actually more equivalent to what we did up here, where we just combined a static
two strings and, you know, put a little space in there or whatever.
So obviously, this would not be useful if you didn't know beforehand how many strings you needed to
concatenate.
This is only useful if you knew exactly how many strings your concatenating.
But then again, in order to use string builder in its most optimal way, you probably need to know
how many strings you're going to concatenate anyway so that you can allocate the exact capacity for
the memory if you want to be like the most optimum.
All right.
And then there's another way to do this where this approach is actually going to print to the screen,
but you might want to just capture the output of this into a string and then do something with that
later.
So you could do that as well.
You could say string that one more final string because I'm running out of names for strings here,
string variables.
And then there's a method on the string class called format and this format method of string works just
like the format here on the string system that out.
So again, we can pass into it a string literal.
Just like that comma, text, one comma text two.
And now if I do an essay, you t four system out that print line and then I print this variable here.
Oh, and one thing we have to keep in mind now, if we're going to do this because we've got this system
that out that format here, if we want a new line between this line printed out and in this line here,
we will need to put a backslash in and that just tells the format method to make a new line.
I hit return after you print out this line.
Otherwise, what comes out on this line and what comes out on this line will be together on the same
line.
OK, so if we've run this now?
There we go.
So we get a whole lot of duplication in multiple ways.
Right.
So we've got this line here.
Now the print line method does automatically make a new line at the end of it.
But the format method does not make a new line, and that's why we had to put this backslash in here.
OK.
So this last line corresponds to line 25.
The second to last line corresponds to line 23.
And then this is the second line here.
And then the first line.
Here.
OK, so now you've had a chance to see more multiple ways of combining text strings together, and you've
got some good options here.
So now in the next lesson, we'll dig into even more things that you can do with text.
There's so much.
I'll see you in the next one.